Today I'm going to show you the most
complete upper body strength and muscle
building session. A lot of people ask me
how to structure a day in the gym for
the upper body. And a lot of people have
different styles of training splits. One
most common training split is pushpull
legs, which means you do a push, upper
body push on one day, upper body pull on
another day, and legs on another day.
And every time I see that, I just think
ah bit of a waste of time. Why is it a
waste of time? Because if you do a push
day by itself, then you have to do a set
of pushing, rest, wait. I don't know
what you do while you wait, and then
come back and push again. Instead of
waiting, you could be training the
opposing muscle groups with don't
overlap. So, you do a push instead of
waiting for however long that designated
rest period is. Call it 4 minutes, 5
minutes, or if you're like me, up to 8
minutes, you can do half that amount of
rest and strengthen and train the
opposing muscle groups in the same time.
So the benefit of that is you're getting
twice the amount of work in the same
amount of time. So when I see people
they say I train multiple times per
week. One day push, one day pull. I
think just do it all together. So
therefore, you're getting all that done
in one training session. And I'm going
to show you how I structure it. So for
me, I'm starting with a bench press. You
know me, I'm a powerlifter. I love a
bench press. But you don't have to be a
powerlifter to enjoy the benefits of a
bench press. Today I'm going to show you
a different variation of bench press,
which is what I use on my secondary day.
So I train upper body twice per week.
One day is more specific for
powerlifting where I use my arch. And my
secondary day is always a lighter day.
So I always do a heavy day and a light
day. And this is my opportunity to
strengthen my body, you know, for for
muscle building and hitting what I
neglect with my powerlifting style
sessions. So if I do a lot of arching in
my bench press with a wide grip, it's
not really the best pec builder. Of
course, it builds some pecs, but it's
not the best. So, what I'm going to be
focusing on today is maximizing strength
building in every upper body muscle. So,
the first thing that I'm going to do is
start with a bench press. So, why do I
start with the bench press? Because it's
my favorite and it has the best
carryover to what I want to do, which is
be a powerlifter and have a good bench
press, but it's not really better than
an incline dumbbell press or a flat
dumbbell press or an overhead press.
They're all equally as good as each
other. But if you prioritize overhead,
maybe you can start with overhead. But I
prioritize my horizontal push pattern,
which is why that's what I start with.
Now, come and have a look. I've given
you an indepth bench press tutorial. Uh,
put the link here. That's how everyone
should bench press. But it's not the
only way you should bench press. You
should use accessory exercises or
different variations of that as well,
which is what I'm going to be doing
today. So, today's variation is what I
would do in line with building muscle.
So when I arch, I reduce the range of
motion by bringing my chest up and using
a wider grip. So that reduces the range
of motion so I can shift a heavier load.
The objective here is to be inefficient.
So being efficient means I can throw
more muscle at it and shift a heavier
load, but it's not necessarily better
for building muscle. Being inefficient
is what you want for building muscle. So
I'm going to not arch as much and I'm
going to bring my grip in slightly. So
check this out. So this is me warming
up. I'm going to go flat feet. So, I'm
not going to maximize my levers. And I'm
going to go slightly I call this a mid
grip. It's slightly narrow grip.
And what I'm also considering here is
slightly more flare with my elbows. I'm
not So, tucking my elbows is is better
for pushing strength. Flaring my elbows
is better for pec building. So that's
the focus of today for this first
exercise is pec development. So what I'm
going to be doing is showing you how I
structure my session. And uh just so you
know, I'm I've got to be in and out in
an hour. Therefore, a lot of people ask
how long the sessions go for. Well, this
one's going to go for an hour. I've got
no choice. And the way that I do it is
I'm going to be working up to uh
actually just two top sets of
everything. Two top sets of bench. And
I'm super setting that with the opposing
pattern. So to keep it simple, you go.
We're going to start the session with
horizontal push pull. You don't have to
use a belt for this. I'm just using it
for comfort.
Now check this out. Supernated grip.
From the full stretch position, I like
to like I didn't realize that I did it
up until my warm-ups. I like to look
down
and then slightly lift my head as I
bring it up. Now, what I'm trying to do
is maintain my core. So, I'm not, you
know, swinging with my hips. I'm
maintaining the lower back, but I'm
rounding my upper back so that I can
reach my shoulder blades forward. Reach
the shoulder blades forward to maximize
the recruitment of the midback muscles.
So, that's why around my upper back, his
midback. Now
the reason why I'm using a supernated
grip is for variation of course mid grip
is good, pronated is good but actually
supernated is the best way to target
lats. The lats due to their attachment
on the inner lip or the medial lip of
the bicipital groove of the upper
armbbone which is the humorus. So by
nature what happens is when the muscle
contracts it brings that point to the
origin which is kind of like along the
spine and your top of your pelvis. So it
pulls those two points together and the
action that it causes is a few shoulder
extension adduction and internal
rotation. So when you perform the
opposite of those it creates tension on
that. So supernating is paired with
external rotation which creates more
tension on the lats while I perform its
other action which in this case is
shoulder joint extension. It's kind of a
very good bang for your buck horizontal
pull pattern. So if you're a bodybuilder
you think lats or romboids or traps or
whatever. If you're a strength athlete
you think pull pattern. But with me you
could say I'm a little bit more of a
hybrid. Did I do 80? I did. I'm going to
go up to 100 next. little bit more of a
hybrid because actually building muscle
carries over to your potential to build
strength. So if you're a strength
athlete, you should consider being a bit
of hybrid as well and factor in muscle
hypertrophy.
So
>> if you're a bodybuilder,
>> if you're a bodybuilder, I like that
question because yes, you should also
factor in strength. So, this benefits
every single person whose goal is to
build muscle, perform better, be a
better human physically. You know, your
personality might suck.
I can't fix that.
So, check out what I'm doing here. I go
pinky on the line. It's mid grip. Mid
grip is my preference for pec building.
So, why mid-grip?
Because it positions the upper armbbone,
which is the attachment point for the
pecs. So, the pecs and the lats attach
next to each other. There's a line in
the middle. That's a groove called the
bicipital groove. Lat attaches on the
inside of that and the pec attaches on
the outside of that. So, to create
tension on the pec, which you need when
you're training it, you need some
stretch. So when you go completely close
grip, so this position here, that's how
I take pecs out of the equation. When
you go too wide, that is a great way of
doing pecs, but it also reduces the
range of motion. So it's kind of a bit
of a sweet spot. So I've already done
wide grip with my strength day on my
bench press.
[snorts]
>> [snorts]
>> I've already done wide grip to [sighs]
shift the heaviest loads because it
reduces the distance that I need to
travel. So, right now, that's what I
want to do. I want to increase the
distance, but I still want to maintain
maximal tension, which is why I go
slightly closer grip, which is a mid
grip. The best way to bench press to
build pecs, if you're going to do a
bench press to build pecs, cuz there's a
lot of other exercises, the best way to
build pecs with a bench press is a mid
grip. Close grip is not enough
activation. Wide grip is not enough
range of motion. Mid grip is the sweet
spot. So, for me, that equals pinky on
the line of a powerlifting bar. And when
I perform the movement, I do want to
slightly flare my elbows to increase the
tension on the pec muscle. And I'm going
to show you now.
>> So, I don't slide back on this style of
bench press because I don't need to
maximize my arch. So, I just lay down
straight on the bench. So, if you notice
when I do my powerlifting setup, I slide
back so that I can bring my feet back so
that I can maximize my arch. I don't
want to do that here. I'm just keeping
my feet flat. So, there's no need to
slide back to get the position. I'm
actually going to start my first work
set next. So, this is going to be my
working weight. All right. So, now now
I'm ready. Okay. So, the first working
weight is going to be 140 kg. And I'm
going to be doing sets of eight with a
mid grip. I mean, that's the goal. It
should feel comfortable. We'll see how
it goes. And I'm only going to be doing
two sets. So,
whenever you're not doing as many sets,
the rule is you got to go closer to
fail. All right. So, because I'm only
doing two sets, you don't have to go to
fail, but I'll probably go to a point
where I've got maybe
one rep in reserve. If you notice, I
just took my belt off because while I
was doing this, I realized
I don't use the belt.
[panting and sighs]
Eight was too easy. 10 was I'd say that
was appropriate. Probably could have
done 12. I don't know. [sighs] It's
definitely not as easy. Doing the bench
press with a flat foot and no arch and a
mid grip is probably I don't know. It's
definitely weaker for me than my normal
setup. Maybe I don't know, call it 10%
weaker, something like that. So, well,
there you go. So, I did 10 reps on 140,
but I had reps in reserve. Last week, I
did 10 reps on 160 with my powerlifting
setup [sighs] with similar reps in
reserve. So, there you go. It's probably
more than 10% stronger when I set up
with an arch. Now, this is how I
superset. A lot of people when they do a
super set, they go one exercise straight
into the next. So, normally I rest 8
minutes between my heavy sets. So,
instead of resting 8 minutes, I'm going
to rest 4 minutes and do the opposing
muscle group and then rest four minutes
and come back and do my next set. So,
I'm going to be doing two big sets on
the horizontal push pull. And then we're
going to do the next exercise, which is
going to be, you guessed it, the
vertical push pull. And we're going to
do two big sets on each of those.
>> If you do like single arm work, how do
you do the rest?
>> Yeah, I like that. you know, single arm
supersets. So, the way that I used to do
my single arm unilateral work is [sighs]
one arm, the other arm, and then I'd
rest however long. And then I realized
no matter which arm I started on, there
was central fatigue buildup. So, if I
start on my strong arm, I'm too t I'm
tired now, and then I go and do my the
other arm and I've used some of my
energy. So, the better strategy for
doing unilateral work is to do one side
and then rest whatever the rest period
is, you know? So for this, if I was to
instead of doing this seated cable row,
if I was doing a one- arm row, I'd go
bench press and then wait 4 minutes or 3
minutes and then I'd do one arm, rest
two minutes, the other arm, and then
rest the remainder of that 8 minutes and
then come back to the bench press. So
that's a pretty uh useful strategy. You
don't have to rush it. That way you give
very equal attention to the left and the
right. Okay, so that's four minutes
rest. And I'm going to do a set of this
is high reps. You don't have to stick to
the same reps for every exercise. I'm
want to go for 15 reps here. Mainly
because the seated cable row, the range
of motion, you don't get as long a range
of motion as some of the other back
exercises. It's quite short. So
therefore, you know, to get a lot of uh
stimulation out of the set, you could
say to get a better feel from the set. I
find that higher reps is better for this
exercise. So things like a a seated
cable row, I prefer to do higher reps
than a latap pull down. I think a lat
pull down allows the muscle to go
through a longer range of motion, so you
don't need as many repetitions. Anyhow,
we're going to go for 15 here. Remember,
supernated grip,
slight rounding in the upper back, and
shoulder blades back and down.
[gasps]
[sighs and gasps]
Four minutes. One more set of bench.
This
>> one. So, I'm going to put the Instagram
one on this.
>> That's okay. I promise you I did it. Two
sets of 10. Uh, both pretty comfortable,
but at the same time, I think [gasps]
like I trained them hard enough. So, for
hypertrophy, you've got to, one of the
main things that people talk about is
taking movements to a close proximity to
failure. And a lot of the times if you
look at my sets, looks like I got heaps
of reps in reserve. And I'll like when I
finish my sets, like that one there, the
last rep probably looked good. I just
know how it looks. [sighs and gasps] And
I know a lot of people say you had
plenty more reps in reserve, but it
feels very different. I think I
definitely had a rep in reserve. Maybe
two more reps in reserve. Maybe. And the
difference is I think that when you
become more advanced, you know how to
focus better. you know, how to get more
dialed in and spend the energy. So, for
me, I'm pushing as hard as I can on
every single rep. I'm not just relaxing
through it. I'm I'm really forcefully
contracting. So, that's why for me, it's
very deceiving. And a lot of people that
I work with, it's very deceiving. It's
like easy, then all of a sudden stops.
So, for me, I would say maybe that's one
or two repetitions in reserve. And yes,
that is enough to stimulate a muscle
growth response. So, you know, the topic
of do you go to fail or not? It's like,
well, sometimes, and it depends. So,
what I like to also do is set myself up
so that I can go heavier next session.
So, you know, I was looking at that
thinking, okay, 140 for 10, I probably
could go 145, you know, on the second
set, go a little bit heavier, uh, and
that would have been a lot harder, and I
probably would have just got it. But
why? where am I going to go next week if
I do that? I like to start conservative
and complete. So that's the difference
between doing straight sets and kind of
pyramiding up where I used to do the
pyramid thing where you go heavier and
heavier until it's really hard until you
take it to fail. And then what do you do
the following week? So my strategy is
whenever I write a program down,
whatever reps and sets I write, it's cuz
that's how many reps and sets I want.
Keep the same reps and sets. The first
set is going to be the easiest. The
second set should be harder. The third
set should be harder. I want you to
choose the same weight for the entire
session and then hopefully there's reps
in reserves so that we can go heavier on
the following week. That's just the
strategy that I use that just works. I
call it a hack. It's a bit cheesy to use
that terminology, but in my opinion,
that's why most people have plateaued is
they go too hard every session and they
don't leave room to be able to progress
the following week. So, if I came in
next week and I tried to go heavier but
I couldn't, I'm not going to enjoy the
session. It's going to suck. I don't
want to not get better. So, as opposed
to setting myself up, I guarantee I can
go heavier next week. I will go heavier
next week. And then hopefully there's a
rep in reserve again. And then I can
say, I guarantee I'm going to go heavier
the next week. And then I'm going to
look forward to those sessions because I
know that I completed it with
competence. Right? So, that's my hack
for progression is enjoying what you do
and setting yourself up so that you can
progress. Okay. Next set. Uh with this
one little bit different. I am going to
go up. All exercises have a slightly
different profile. Things like the
barbell compound lifts, I never really
recommend, I don't want to say never. I
I rarely recommend going to failure on
those big squat, bench press, deadlift,
but other exercises. So those barbell
movements have a higher risk of
technical breakdown. And when you're
lifting heavy enough, it's a higher risk
of injury. I got to injure myself on a
cable row for sets of 15, you know. So
let's just say I go to failure on the
14th rep. What's going to happen?
Nothing. I'll be tired. It'll be fine.
So anyway, I went a little bit heavier
because that last set was Yeah. A little
bit of room in reserve. All right, let's
go. Second set.
[snorts]
[sighs]
>> [cough]
[clears throat]
>> Upper body horizontal pushpull done.
[sighs and gasps]
Two big sets now. So, I promised you a
complete upper body session for size and
strength. The next movement plane is
going to be vertical. Now, here's some
rules with your training. First exercise
of the day, highest priority to
achieving your goal. Okay? So, my goal
is, you know, I prioritize the bench
press. I prioritize the horizontal push
pattern. So, that's what I start with
usually. If you're a strong man, you
might prioritize the overhead pattern,
right? So, whatever it is that's your
goal, do that first. Secondary exercise
is the joint angles and ranges of motion
you neglected in the main movement. So
what did I neglect? What's the joint
angles that I neglected there? That's a
horizontal push plane. Don't do more
horizontal push plane. That's called
exercise redundancy. So I could do any
other angle. So let's just say today is
a push strength developer. So I want to
develop my pushing on all angles, mainly
horizontal and vertical. But if it was a
pec specific day, even as simple as
changing the incline very slightly
allows you to hit a slightly different
angle. So what you want to do is hit
areas you neglected in the main
movement. So a few areas that I
neglected. One was a horizontal plane.
So let's move to the vertical plane. Two
was a barbell in a pronated grip. So I
don't want to do more pronated grip
work. So if I get the dumbbells and do
the exact same grip position, it's like
I've just targeted that. It's not the
pronated dumbbells are bad. It's just
that I've already done that. So, why not
add a little bit of variation where we
can and that's what I choose to do every
time I do dumbbells really because I do
so much barbell work. So, if I never did
barbell work, I'd probably do 50% of my
dumbbells pronated and 50% neutral. But,
I do do barbell work. So, therefore, I
have no choice but to perform barbell
with a pronated grip. Whenever I do
dumbbells, I hit the angle that I
neglected in the main movement, which is
going to be neutral grip. So, I'll do a
field set first. Excuse the noise.
[gasps]
>> [sighs]
>> And then I'm going to do a feel set on
my vertical pull pattern. Fill up my
drink bottle. I got half an hour left.
Plenty of time to get a lot of great
work in. Watch your step.
I'm going to show you a secret. Did you
see how I just put water in there? Well,
I never never drink water. Actually, I
drink water in combination with
with electrolytes. So, two choices of
electrolytes. The easiest one is salt.
The easiest one is salt. However,
something I enjoy is a little bit of
flavor. So, this is my favorite
electrolyte. This is hydrate from
Transparent Labs. Tastes delicious. No
calories.
It is raspberry lemonade. Delicious.
Delicious. You know, and the reason why
it's not just because I want flavored
drink, you know, not a baby, of course.
But water from the tap isn't the best
way to hydrate you because if you were
to, let's just say you were dehydrated
or sick or whatever and you rushed to
hospital and they put you on an IV drip.
I'll tell you what that contains. That
saline solution contains 9 g of sodium.
Nine grams of sodium. You'd get that out
of two decent sized teaspoons of salt.
10 g. So 9 g of sodium per liter of
water. I'll tell you how that tastes
like the ocean. So whenever I use salt,
I do half of that. So that's what's
palatable for me is five. So one
teaspoon per liter of water. Uh whereas
this stuff is formulated for hydration.
So it has electrolytes. It's got
potassium as well. Potassium, magnesium,
and sodium is the main one that you need
to replenish. training the fluids that
you lose like in your sweat. You know it
tastes like salt, right? It's cuz it has
sodium in it. Okay. Feel set for the
vertical pull pattern. Slight different
change in grip. I was supernated there.
I'm just going to go neutral here in the
vertical pull plane.
>> [panting and sighs]
>> Okay, that was just a feel set. Next up,
work sets. I'm going to do two work sets
of vertical pushpull. So, today's my
light session all around. So, this is
kind of a bit of a fun day. My heavy
session for the week is done. And I find
that I don't progress very well when I
try and do two heavy sessions. So, the
light session is good opportunity to
build muscle, to get a pump and feel
great and all those things, but it's
also just a nice opportunity to unload
my body from all of the heavy lifting.
So, I'm going to do 40 kg dumbbell
press. Uh, and I'm just going to rep it.
So, what rep range? I don't know, maybe
20, something like that. Which brings us
back to the discussion of high reps
versus low reps. What's better? The
answer is combination of both at
different times of your long-term plan.
If all you do is low reps and heavy
heavy heavy weight, your joints are
going to get sick to death of you. For
me, I've done heavy stuff couple of days
ago. So, I can do shoulder press of 60
kg in each hand at the moment, but I
don't want to do that now. My shoulders
I just need a bit of a rest. I'm going
to do 40 kg and I'm going to rep the
hell out of it. Ready?
>> Let's go.
>> [clears throat]
>> Woof. Just short of 20.
No, that was kind of 18 and then 3/4 and
then half. [sighs and gasps]
So,
you know, those sets I can afford to
take close to failure because it's
light. it's [sighs]
not going to risk injury. And I find,
you know, my own personal experience,
shoulders love high reps. So, I've
always done that. For 20 years, I've got
a very strong shoulder press. My best
strict press with a barbell is 175 kg
when I was weighing about 116 kg body
weight. Pretty strong. And I've never
really prioritized. I've always
prioritized a bench press, but I've
always also prioritized a balanced
approach to my upper body training,
which means I place equal emphasis on
all planes, push and pull, like this.
So, my overhead pressing complements my
bench pressing and vice versa. For my
powerlifters out there, include vertical
pressing. For my strong men out there
who do a lot of vertical pressing,
include horizontal pressing. This is in
aid of having no weak points.
weak things break. I want every angle to
be strong. So now, that was probably two
minutes. I'll give myself another little
bit and we're going to do the vertical
pull plane.
>> You always do the same. Don't you get
bored?
>> Do I get bored? Um, no. Um, I don't
think that I really do the same thing.
I'm kind of doing very similar things
all the time. So, every month I'll
change this handle. So, this is the
neutral grip. I'll change it to the
pronated grip. And then I'll do a wider
grip. And that's the small variation
that I use, but I'll still always do a
ver vertical pull pattern with a latap
pull down or a pull-up. Same with the
seated cable row. So, it's Yeah, you are
right. It's always kind of the same
thing. There are small variations, but
why reinvent the wheel? Some people are
after novel exercises that haven't been
done before. You don't need to reinvent
the wheel. It's the basics that work.
So, one of the best things that you can
do is kind of practice the same thing
over and over and over and keep getting
better at it and keep refining the
skill. And that's how you progress. So,
one of my favorite parts, uh, the least
boring parts in the gym is progression.
And if you use too much variation,
you're not giving the exercise enough
opportunity to improve on it. And I find
not progressing a lot more boring than
doing the same exercises, but
progressing on them. [panting and sighs]
>> [clears throat]
[sighs]
[snorts]
>> 17 or 16 and a half. [sighs]
One more set on each of those. That's
what everyone's trying to do is reinvent
the wheel. [sighs] Go and have a look at
the best athletes in the world.
They're doing the same exercises just
better. So, [sighs]
a lot of people say that like I did a my
top 10 exercises on Instagram and
someone wrote in the comment section,
this is nothing new, [sighs and gasps]
you know, as if like what does this
coach know? He didn't invent something.
It's like correct, I didn't invent any
of it. I'm using the stuff that's worked
and I recommend the stuff that works
that has stood the test of time. One
more set of each. All right. Next up,
that's a very complete upper body
session. We've just done push and pull
horizontal and vertical. So, all of
those muscles are [panting and sighs]
stimulated almost maximally except for
arms. Now, let's talk a little bit about
arms. In our arms and our legs, we have
muscles in them that are called
barticular muscles, which means they
cross two joints. So the biceps cross
the shoulder and the elbow joint. People
think that that's what the biceps do is
elbow flexion, but they cross the
shoulder joint and attach on my shoulder
blade and they're responsible for
flexion and sorry, elbow flexion and
shoulder flexion, right? So therefore,
when we're doing our pulling pattern,
I'm flexing my elbow, but I'm extending
my shoulder, which means that they are
two conflicting actions of the bicep.
What you want to do to maximally train
the bicep is fix it at one joint. So fix
it at the shoulder and work it at the
second joint, which is the elbow. So if
all you do for your bicep work is the
compound rows and pull-ups and pull
downs, you're leaving gains on the
table. You need to include some
isolation exercises. Same goes for the
triceps. One of the three heads of the
triceps, which is the long head of the
tricep, is also a barticular muscle. It
attaches to the scapula. It is
responsible for elbow extension and
shoulder extension. When I do a press,
I'm doing elbow extension and shoulder
flexion, which means that there's not
adequate stimulation on the long head of
the triceps. Of course, it's on, just
not to the same degree as if you were to
isolate it. So, if you're an athlete of
a non-strength sport or just like a
rugby player or a combat athlete or
whatever, you know, your compound push
and pull is probably enough. But if
you're a bodybuilder and you want every
muscle to be welldeveloped and strong,
you need to isolate. So, that goes for
the arms as well as the legs. So, squat
pattern to hit all quads, you need to
add isolation leg extension. To hit all
hamstrings, you need to add isolated
hamstring curls on top of your big
compound squats and deadlifts. So,
that's what we're going to do now.
There's so many different tricep
exercises. The one that I'm going to do
now is one that allows me to target the
triceps in the fully lengthened
position. So all of my pressing is
allowing me to strengthen my shoulders,
my triceps in the shortened position. So
when I go overhead, so the long head
crosses the shoulder joint to stretch
it. Think about how you have to stretch
your your tricep. You don't just do this
to stretch it. So that's elbow flexion
to stretch the extensors. You also need
to extend, sorry, flex the shoulder
joint, right? So therefore, overhead
tricep exercises are a way to target the
long head of the triceps at the fully
lengthened position. So there's a buzz
word, a buzz topic at the moment, which
is lengthened partials or length bias
hypertrophy work, where people are
saying that lengthened position
stimulation is where you achieve better
hypertrophy. I'm not going to go there.
For some muscles, yes, for some muscles,
not necessarily. I don't really care.
I'm a strength athlete and I want the
muscle to be strong in the fully
lengthened mid-range and the fully
shortened position. So regardless, yes,
I am going to do lengthen position, but
it's not because it's better or worse.
It's because I've done a whole bunch of
shortened position tricep work and now
I'm going to include some lengthened
work.
14 14.
Not because I was going for 14. I
[snorts] was going for 12 and plus.
Next, biceps. Lots of different bicep
exercises. The one that I'm choosing now
is a great bang for your buck bicep
exercise and that is a Zotman curl. So
the Zman curl
is a way of targeting the elbow flexors
on every angle. So what you do is you
take the concentric portion with a
supernated position.
Supernating your wrist allows us to
target more biceps because it creates
more tension on the bicep. But then
there's also other flexes of the elbow
which is biceps. The muscle underneath
that which is called the brachiialis.
Different attachment points. So to
target the brachiialis you want to
switch off the other muscle. So
switching off biceps by pronating the
wrist. But then we've also got the
brachior radiialis which is this muscle
here. Looks like a forearm muscle. It
kind of is but it flexes the elbow.
Concentric supernated eccentric is
pronated. So in top on top of the elbow
flexors, you're also strengthening the
the wrist extensors by doing that
pronated grip in the reverse grip on the
way down. I'm going to do it seated.
Well, I'm going to do it on a slight
incline. So putting it on an incline, it
creates a bit of tension on the bicep
because the bicep, so if I'm doing
straight, this is kind of a bit of a
shorter position of the bicep. This is
creating some more tension on the bicep.
So I go supernated, turn pronated on the
way down.
>> [sighs]
>> This is too light, but I'm just first
bicep exercise of the day is just to
feel it. Couple minutes and then I'm
going to go for it.
>> [sighs]
[sighs and gasps]
>> 12. One more set of each. Last but not
least. So that is I could say very
complete upper body session. Last but
not least is a little bit of shoulder
health. So forever I've always included
some type of uh ancillary muscle group
exercise at the end of my upper body
days. So we got things like rotator cuff
exercises, midback focus exercises,
lower trapezius exercises, seratus
anterior exercises. Like these are like
a shoulder health exercise that on all
of my programs I kind of just choose
one. So I might do a rotator cuff on one
of the days and then a seratus anterior
on the other day. Uh, and then on the
next phase, I'll I'll stick to those
ones for the entire phase, like a
four-week program. The next phase, I'll
choose two different shoulder health
exercises. Now, today I'm going to give
you my bang for your buck, which is a
face pull, which kind of hits so many
different muscles. So, the magic behind
a face pull, why is it a rehaby
exercise? Well, there's a few things
that we're doing. So, one of them is,
you know, midback, but specific midback
muscles are the romboids in absence of
lats. So when you do your pull downs and
the rows, when I tuck my elbows in, this
is how I recruit lats.
When I abduct this bone here, my my
shoulder joint or my humorris above 90°,
that turns off my lats. And when I turn
off my lats, it means more of the
emphasis goes on the other muscles,
which are going to be midback muscles,
specifically romboids. You know, it's
not as if they're more important for
shoulder health than any of the other
exercises, but I would say that they are
more neglected because of people's
day-to-day work patterns. So, when
people do main pulling exercises, they
don't squeeze their shoulder blades
back. If you see a pull-up, they're kind
of doing this action, which is lats, but
not a lot of midback muscles. When
people reach over in front of a computer
all day long, they're stretching those
midback muscles, and they're over time
weakening that structure. So, it's not
that romboids are so important. It's
just that romboids are usually pretty
neglected. The next thing is when I do
the face pull, there's two ways of doing
it. One is to the neck, one is to the
top of the head. Both of them are good.
But when you go to the top of the head,
it's adding an extra component
for the airplane. It's adding an
additional external rotation component.
So the external rotators are there's
three rear deltoids externally rotate
the shoulder. Infraspanatus and
tererry's minor. They're the only three
muscles that externally rotate the
shoulder. So why do they matter? Because
I like to create balance with my body.
And I've done a lot of internal rotation
exercises. pecs, very strong internal
rotators. Lats, very strong internal
rotators. I just did a whole ton of pec
and lat work that strengthens the hell
out of my external rotation. And I want
opposing muscle groups as well. I want
everything to be strong. So therefore,
this is a really great bang for your
buck exercise. Um, now a few details in
the execution of this. Do it seated. You
will feel the difference. If you do, a
lot of people do it standing. Um, don't
know why. I think they think in real
life you're standing, so you need to be
able to demonstrate strength in a
standing position. I don't agree. I
mean, I agree to that, but at the same
time, I'm not strengthening my standing
external rotation movement. I want to
strengthen a specific muscle. The best
way to do that is to secure your body as
much as possible. Stabilize yourself so
you can hit the exact target muscles.
So, when you sit down, you don't have to
worry about balance or anything like
that. You'll feel it instantly. It's way
stronger. Uh, so rep range,
[sighs]
I like kind of 20 rep range for this.
So, when it's super heavy, you just
don't feel stimulated. You can't
complete the technique with good range
of motion. So for me, I like it, you
know, relatively light, but just rep it,
rep it, rep it. So let's see. So grab it
here and sit down. And that's to the
neck. So pulling the elbows high is to
the neck. Pulling it a little bit higher
is where we include a bit of external
rotation component. And thinking about
pulling those handles apart. Five, I
think.
>> [snorts]
>> 30 reps.
Yeah, it's not a strength exercise. I
don't want to go heavy heavy and low
reps. Your shoulders don't move well
when you do that. But I I'll admit I
want to go heavier than that. So that's
30 reps here. That's the first set. I'm
going to do one more set. I'll go a
little bit heavier and I'll just am wrap
it. I don't know how many I'll do. If I
beat 20, I'm comfortable. Anyway, you
have to sit through that. That was a
complete upper body session. If you just
studied everything that I said, then
you'll know more than every most of the
gym goers out there on how to have a
complete upper body in strength, in
size, in joint health, in everything
that we train for. So, what else would
you want to train for in the gym?
Strength, size, aesthetics as well, and
and balance and proportion. So, that's
kind of everything. That's your session.
Copy what I did. You're welcome. Anyway,
I hope you enjoyed that session. If you
want to see more of that stuff, click
like, subscribe, and comment in the
comment section what you want to see
more of. I hope you guys enjoyed. Until
next time.